---
layout: post
comments: true
title:  "Data is becoming a critical design material"
date:   2020-03-24 01:30:13
image: 
description: Design-Centric Design
main-class: 'dcd'
color:
tags:
- dcd
- challenges
- data
- design
categories:
- DCD Hub
twitter_text:
introduction:
---

Future products are increasingly built around real-time sensor data and machine learning algorithms. At the same
time, ubiquitous sensing technologies provide ever more detailed insights into human activities, such as what
people do, how they move, how they socialise, how healthy they are. Thus, data and algorithms become a critical
material for informing the design and development of future products that are relevant, useful and appropriate,
and deliver real value and impact.

However, designers lack the ability to effectively use this emerging material as part of the product design and
development process to inform, drive and assess. With a focus on human activity data, we investigate five key qualities of this material for
designers: accessible, intelligent, ethical, collaborative and scalable.

With a Research through Design approach, we ground this research with experimental studies across a variety of
human activity data and societal challenges. Here we unpack these three opportunities
and five challenges at the core of Data-Centric Design.
                                    
# 3 opportunities for design processes
                                 
## Data-Informed

Data and machine learning algorithms offer a new perspective to better understand contextual
environment. One from things that can continuously observe and detect patterns as well as unexpected
events. Complementing the designers' tool box, this perspective enriched the understanding and
generate additional lead for designers to explore.

## Data-Driven

The 'smart product' industry is dominated by technology pushes. Facilitating the access of
those technologies to designers is key to put them back in control of the design process. It is
essential to deliver responsible products that support people needs and values.

## Data-Assessed
                          
The product design field remains dominated by a throw-over-the-fence model in which designers
release their products and move on to the next without assessing its impact. Data and machine
learning algorithms are critical material and tools to enable never-ending design processes.
                          
# 5 challenging qualities
                                  
## The Accessibility Challenge
                          
Current data and data analysis are geared towards data scientists – there is a lack of data and data
analysis tools for designers that integrate into the design process.
                          
**How can designers effectively collect, store and visualise human activity data?**
                          
## The Intelligence Challenge
                          
Design approaches and machine learning sciences are misaligned. Data science start with a defined
problem and a strategy to extract answers out of the data. Informing design with data requires an
exploration of the space to uncover relevant issues from the data .
                          
**How can designers prototype intelligence with and for human data?**
                                
## The Ethical Challenge
                        
Data and machine learning algorithms raise serious ethical and legal concerns and designers need to
be able to understand and address these concerns in their designs – yet there is a lack of
practical knowledge for designers about data and algorithms ethics.
                          
**How can designers leverage human activity data while protecting the right to privacy and promoting the
right to science?**
                                
## The Co-design Challenge
                                           
Although ‘Big data’ is a powerful tool to understand what is happening in a contextual environment,
it is  very limited when it comes to understand why it is happening.
                              
**How can designers co-design engage data subjects effectively?**
                          
## The Scalability Challenge
                          
The extraction of meaningful insights with data and machine learning algorithms relies on large
quantity of data, beyond the typical scale of the product design and development process.
                          
**How can designers implement a DCD process at scalable?**
