
We play with data generated by a diversity of Things
that reflect human activity (physiologic, cognitive
and behavioural). Through empirical studies, we
inform, develop and evaluate methods and tools that
facilitate the five qualities of data-centric design.


A Wheelchair

In the Netherlands, there are 225-250k
wheelchair users. Over 60-70% of independent
wheelchair users develop overuse injuries
with huge societal costs due to work absence
of injured employees and high medical
(rehabilitation) costs. Self-tracking
technologies, like Fitbit wearables,
smartwatches and mobile phone apps, allow
people to monitor physical activity, health
conditions and sports performance. However,
despite the fact that wheelchair users need
to use their physical capacity more
consciously, few wheelchair self-tracking
products are currently available. While the
population of wheelchair users is growing
world-wide, it becomes urgent to design
supportive technologies for wheelchair
users.


The wheelchair is a central point of focus
in the iterative understanding and
development of data-centric design. It
provides a diverse set of relevant contexts
to investigate such as work and home, inside
and outside, daily activities and sport
competition, permanent use and
rehabilitation, interaction between data
subjects and practitioners. Using this
artefact as an open-source, domain-specific
design platform I aim to generate empirical
evidence of challenges and solutions for
accessible, intelligent and ethical
data-centric design. For example:
            
* 3D printing a wheelchair with its
sensors (hardware) and its digital twin
(software) to facilitate the process of
data-centric design (accessible);
                                    
* Developing technics for prototyping
reliable activity recognition and
embedded interactions (intelligent);

* Investigating the privacy sensitivity of
sensor-based data together with
wheelchair users (ethical);
                                        
A Wi-Fi Access Point

Wi-Fi access points have become a critical
component the digital revolution by enabling
people to access the internet. As most
networking technologies, tracking user
connections is part of the system
infrastructure to deliver the service. This
user connection data is a potential resource
for science and research across many
disciplines. Many TU Delft faculties have
concrete example of applications to
understand and improve products and
services. Examples are the improvement of
building energy management or emergency
evacuation strategies. However, the privacy
implications of this data are enormous and
ill-understood.
                                    
In collaboration with the EEMCS faculty, the
ICT department, the ethics committee, I lead
a project funded by <a
href="http://designforvalues.tudelft.nl/">
Delft Design for Value institute</a> to
investigate how human activity data derived
from Wi-Fi access point data can be used
ethically and at scale. For example:

* Designing user interactions that enable
    intelligible and usable control of
    personal data (accessible);
* Investigating the privacy sensitivity of
    Wi-Fi access point data together with
    wheelchair users (ethical);
* Developing an infrastructure for data
    sharing that enable real time informed
    consent (scalable).
